docs: add design doc for setting ceph config via cluster crd (#13202)
rook/rook: design/ceph/ceph-config-via-cluster-crd.md

# Ceph Config via Ceph Cluster CRD

## Goal

> Adding an addition simpler way to configure the Ceph config options via the CephCluster CRD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding the ability to configure the Ceph config options via the CephCluster CRD.
```

> The goal is not to replace the `rook-config-override` ConfigMap yet, but to reduce it's use to almost zeor for 99% of the cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal is not to replace the `rook-config-override` ConfigMap since it is still needed in some scenarios such as if mons need settings applied at first launch.
```

## Current Solution

Users need to update the `rook-config-override` and add their custom options, e.g., for setting a custom OSD scrubbing schedule ([Ceph OSD Scrubbing config options](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/rados/configuration/osd-config-ref/#scrubbing)).

## Proposed Solution

> Adding a new config structure to the CephCluster CRD under `.spec.storage` named `scrubbing:`.

Reviewer: Outdated?

> The config structure will be structured in a way of `Target->Options`.

Reviewer: "global" and "osd.3" are the target you refer to?

Author: Yes, I have added examples to it.

```yaml
spec:
  # [...]

>   config:

Reviewer: What about `cephConfig`? Then perhaps it is more clear these are just being passed on to ceph? `config` is also used a few other places in the `cephCluster` CR under `storage`, so it could be easily confused with those settings.
```suggestion
  cephConfig:
```

> The `cephConfig` structure will be structured in a way of `Target -> Options` (target being the service to set the options for, e.g., whole cluster `global`, specific OSD `osd.3`).

Reviewer 2: I also had a late-night thought last night that we might want to keep an internal list of configs that Rook doesn't allow to be modified. This would be configs that are tightly controlled by Rook and that are critical to keeping the cluster functioning.

E.g., metrics values, mon configs, fsid, keyring, and any others I'm sure I missed.
@travisn @galexrt ?

Reviewer: This feature is quite advanced and powerful, really making it easier to shoot yourself in the foot. My thought is that they need to be careful with this feature because we won't be able to put enough safeguards around crazy things they can do. I would vote not to put these safeguards in place and have it be a "use at your own risk" feature.

Author: @BlaineEXE That's a good point, I will amend the design in the implementation PR if that is fine.

Author: @travisn @BlaineEXE I hav thought this a bit more, I think it is reasonable to block the few most important settings (fsid, keyring, mon hosts), but to keep it at that.
In the future we might either remove that list or add a "I am really sure what I'm doing with these config options" option to disable this protection. Any thoughts on this?

Reviewer: I would still vote to keep the implementation simple by not trying to restrict settings. Advanced features like this should be only used by advanced users who are careful about not choosing the wrong settings.

Reviewer 2: I don't really see this as necessarily being an advanced-only feature, which is my struggle. I think that a lot of users will use this instead of using the config-override configmap. With that in mind, I do think that it is worth identifying a short list of truly critical configs that Rook should disallow users from modifying.

And I was originally thinking that the list should be the smallest and most critically small configs like @galexrt has suggested so that we can all keep our own sanity. Certainly `mon_hosts`, `fsid`, and `keyring` are likely the most core set.

Reviewer: I'm not against putting those checks if you think it will help. There are so many settings that could be used incorrectly, it just feels like building a picket fence to keep out an elephant. :)

    global:
      osd_max_scrubs: "5"
      # It could be used to set these options for a test cluster (cluster-test.yaml)
      osd_pool_default_size: "1"
      mon_warn_on_pool_no_redundancy: "false"
      bdev_flock_retry: "20"
      bluefs_buffered_io: "false"
      mon_data_avail_warn: "10"
    "osd.3":
      bluestore_cache_autotune: "false"
```

This structure would be equal to a `ceph.conf` like this:

```console
[global]
osd_max_scrubs = 5
osd_pool_default_size = 1
mon_warn_on_pool_no_redundancy = false
bdev_flock_retry = 20
bluefs_buffered_io = false
mon_data_avail_warn = 10

[osd.3]
bluestore_cache_autotune = false
```

> The operator will use the Ceph config store (that is accessed via `ceph config ...`) to apply the config options to the Ceph cluster (just after the MONs have been created and have formed quuorum, before anything else is created).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The operator will use the Ceph config store (that is accessed via `ceph config assimilate-conf`) to apply the config options to the Ceph cluster (just after the MONs have been created and have formed quorum, before anything else is created).
```

### Limitations

> The operator won't be unsetting any previously set config options or restore config options to their default value.

Reviewer 2: This is something that many users might find unexpected behavior. Let's be sure to document this on examples and in docs. It might also be worth checking if Validation Admission Policy's CEL structure can make it so values can be added to the config but not removed. That would at least enforce that people would need to keep values set once set.

Thoughts @travisn @subhamkrai ?

Reviewer: This is an advanced feature so I would rather keep it flexible by allowing them to remove settings. We could document how to handle this case by running `ceph config rm` if they want to remove the setting and again use the default.

Reviewer: Yes that sounds like a good option.
